# EAU-CNN-expression-recognition-algorithm
Facial expression recognition is one of the methods to obtain the change of human's inner emotion. The existing methods mostly extract the global facial features, but ignore the local features. According to the definition of psychologists' facial behavior coding system, different expressions have corresponding muscle motion units. Therefore, this paper proposes an expression recognition algorithm EAU-CNN based on extracting local representation of muscle motion units. For local representation, this paper calculates the generating regions of muscle motion units with different expressions, divides the face into 43 regions on the basis of 68 feature points of the face, and splices the regions into 8 local images according to the generation regions of facial organs and motion units. In order to extract the image features evenly, EAU-CNN uses 8 input channels to extract features, and stitches 4096 dimension full connection layer according to the proportion of the composition image area. The splicing full connection layer multiplies different expressions by different weight values to highlight the proportion of local composition image features in different expressions. After subsequent feature extraction and softmax function, the expressions are divided into seven categories: neutral, angry and disgusting , surprise, joy, sadness, fear. After verification, the average accuracy of the algorithm in CK + and Jaffe datasets reaches 99.85% and 96.61%, with the highest improvement of 16.09% and 25.42%, and the average accuracy of custom large fed data set reaches 98.6%, with the highest improvement of 19.68%. The algorithm verifies the importance of local representation for expression recognition.
